Blog post of the powershell lab (#1552)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2025-01-23-terraform-powershell-lab.md

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Oktane Lab: Scaling Okta App Management by Importing Data from PowerShell into Terraform"

Reviewer: Out of curiousity, do you need "Oktane Lab" in there? According to the headline analyzer I use, it's much too long at 75 characters

> Your headline is much too long. At this length, it will get cut off in search results. Try reducing it to about 55 characters.

It also scores a 31, which is pretty low (I shoot for closer to 70). Removing "Oktane Lab:" gets it in the correct wordcount and a score of 37.

> author: E. Dunham

Reviewer 2: edunham

> author: E. Dunham

Reviewer: This is the author property, not written name. So it should be something like `alisa-duncan` and it links to my author profile.

Might want to double check locally

by: advocate
communities: [devops,.net]
description: "Hands-on guide to using Okta Terraform and Powershell."
tags: [terraform, powershell]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image: blog/terraform-powershell-lab/image.jpg
type: awareness
---

> At Oktane 2024, we offered a lab session to teach the basics of automating Okta administration tasks with Terraform and PowerShell. This blog post will walk you through the content taught in that lab so you can follow along at your own pace to get some hands-on experience managing an Okta tenant with both tools. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At Oktane 2024, we offered a lab session to teach the basics of automating Okta administration tasks with Terraform and PowerShell. This post walks you through the lab content so you can follow along at your own pace to get some hands-on experience managing an Okta tenant with both tools. 
```

Active and I feel like we prefer "post" instead of "blog" or "blog post" based on my past review notes

This lab includes some Scenario sections to give realistic examples of a situation where you might perform each task. You can ignore these sections if you don't find them helpful. 

## Background
PowerShell is an excellent introductory tool for general automation tasks. It is easier to set up but can require extensive customization to integrate with a more complete infrastructure-as-code solution. In this lab, the focus will be on reading data with PowerShell, but it is a general-purpose tool that can read from and write to Okta when configured with the appropriate scopes.

Terraform is a specialized tool for developing infrastructure as code. Terraform requires more setup steps than PowerShell, but adding Okta management to an existing Terraform deployment is more straightforward than designing a new solution with PowerShell.

> ## How to create your lab environment

Reviewer: Can we state which versions of Terraform and Okta PowerShell to use (or state which versions you used when testing this lab)? We should pin versions as much as we can

You can follow these steps on any computer where you're able to install the following dependencies: 

- Install [PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.4).
- Install the [official Okta PowerShell module](https://github.com/okta/okta-powershell-cli) from your preferred PowerShell module location.
- Install [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli).

> - Create an Okta org by [signing up](/signup/) for Workforce Identity Cloud.

Reviewer 2: link to okta org creation not working

**Note:** Free trial accounts expire after 30 days, but developer accounts do not expire. 

To use Terraform, you'll run commands in a terminal. You can even use a PowerShell window if you don't have a favorite terminal! 

> If this is your first time writing code, you might want to install an IDE like [Visual Studio](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/introvideos/basics) so that you can navigate the files you're writing, detect errors using plugins, and execute commands using the built-in terminal. 

Reviewer: Should IDE be defined for this audience?

## How to set up Terraform to manage your Okta org's configuration

When an identity administrator gives a person the ability to make changes in Okta, they provision the person with credentials to authenticate and scopes to indicate what they're authorized to do. When you set up an automation tool in your Okta organization, it's similar to onboarding any other colleague: Your tool will need credentials to authenticate and scopes to indicate what it's authorized to do.

> ## Scenario

Reviewer 2: Enterprise scenario 1? For SEO on headers

> ## Scenario

Reviewer: Just my 2cents

This might be a candidate for calling out a section in a quote note. 

```
> **Scenario**
>
> You are on the DevOps team at Okta Ice....
```

You are on the DevOps team at Okta Ice. As the company has grown, it's gotten more challenging to manage and audit the changes that various teams make in Okta. Adding Okta to the infrastructure you are already managing with Terraform allows you to apply existing code review processes to your identity configuration.

### Accessing Terraform

In a production setting, you would collaborate on your Terraform files with colleagues using version control. If anyone at your organization uses Terraform, you should set it up according to their advice on best practices. 

Note that Terraform creates a `.tfstate` file. Each real-world resource should only be represented in one `.tfstate` file. If you're collaborating on a Terraform codebase, products like [Terraform Cloud](https://www.hashicorp.com/resources/what-is-terraform-cloud) are available to help you manage shared access to `.tfstate` files. 

> You will save a private key alongside your code to simplify the lab. In production, you should store keys in your organization's secrets management solution. Because private keys are secrets, follow your organization's best practices for secrets management when dealing with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll save a private key alongside your code to simplify the lab. In production, you should store keys in your organization's secrets management solution. Because private keys are secrets, follow your organization's best practices for secrets management when dealing with them.
```

use contractions as listed in our style guide

    
    d. Select Save Changes.

8. In your VM, create the file `main.tf`:

   ```hcl
   terraform {
     required_providers {
       okta = {
         source = "okta/okta"
       }
     }
   }

   variable "org_id" {
     default = "ORGID"
   }

   provider "okta" {
     org_name  = var.org_id
     base_url  = "oktapreview.com"
     client_id = "CLIENTID"
     scopes = ["okta.apps.manage", "okta.appGrants.manage",
       "okta.oauthIntegrations.manage", "okta.users.manage",
     "okta.policies.read"]
     private_key = file("key.pem")
   }

   ```
9. In your `main.tf` file, replace `ORGID` with the subdomain for your Okta org.

   **Note:** The subdomain is between `https://` and `.oktapreview.com`. In the example below, the subdomain is `oktaice0000000`.

10. In your `main.tf` file, replace `CLIENTID` with the client ID of your Terraform lab app.

    **Note:** Go to Applications > Applications to find the client ID of your Terraform lab app.

11. Save the `main.tf` file.
12. Initiate and run the terraform plan.
    
    a. In your terminal, run the following commands:
      
      ```
      terraform init
      terraform plan

>       ```

Reviewer: I think you're missing a newline or something. the syntax highlighting in GH is catching a problem here

3. Type `yes` when prompted.
4. Wait for the `terraform apply` to complete.
5. From the `Creation complete after` output, copy the value of the `okta_app_oauth` id.

   **Note:** PowerShell and Terraform now have separate applications in your Okta organization. The PowerShell application's ID can also be found in the Okta admin console under Applications -> Applications. 

6. In PowerShell, run these commands:

   **Note:** Replace the {yourOktaDomain} with the entire domain for your Okta org. For example, `oktaice0000000.oktapreview.com`. Replace the ID with the value you copied above.

   ```powershell
   $Configuration = Get-OktaConfiguration
   $Configuration.BaseUrl = "https://{yourOktaDomain}"
   $Configuration.ClientId = "id"
   $Configuration.Scope = "okta.apps.read okta.domains.read okta.groups.read okta.logs.read okta.oauthIntegrations.read okta.orgs.read okta.userTypes.read okta.users.read"
   Invoke-OktaEstablishAccessToken
   ```
 
 7. The `Invoke-OktaEstablishAccessToken` command displays a URL. Open the link in a web browser.
 8. Authenticate to your Okta Training Org when prompted.
 9. In your PowerShell session, run the command `Invoke-OktaListApplications`

> ## Extra Credit

Reviewer: headers should be sentence case.

You have set up the PowerShell application with various scopes. What interesting information about your organization can you retrieve using these scopes? Will these scopes allow you to make any changes to the Okta organization? Try some PowerShell commands to create or destroy resources and see what happens!

## Manage Terraform using Terraform

Now, we'll use data gathered by Powershell to improve your Terraform configuration.

If you aren't using PowerShell, you can get the Terraform integration ID from the Okta admin console instead. 

> ## Scenario

Reviewer 2: Enterprise scenario 2?

Your manager at Okta Ice assigns you a ticket to update the configuration of the Okta Terraform integration. When you try to follow the usual Terraform process of making configuration changes, you discover that the Terraform application isn't managed by Terraform yet! You can fix this without leaving your terminal, thanks to your prior automation efforts with PowerShell. 

## Manage Terraform in Terraform

> 1) 	In your PowerShell session from the previous section, run the command `powershell Invoke-OktaListApplications`

Reviewer: Why did this numbering system change to parens instead of a dot?

  app_id = okta_app_oauth.ps.id
  issuer = "https://${var.org_id}.oktapreview.com"
  scopes = ["okta.apps.read", "okta.domains.read", "okta.groups.read", "okta.logs.read", "okta.oauthIntegrations.read", "okta.orgs.read", "okta.userTypes.read", "okta.users.read"]
}

resource "okta_app_oauth" "tf" {

  app_links_json = jsonencode({
    oidc_client_link = true
  })
  app_settings_json              = jsonencode({})
  authentication_policy          = "abc123"
  client_id                      = "abc123"
  consent_method                 = "REQUIRED"
  grant_types                    = ["client_credentials"]
  implicit_assignment            = false
  issuer_mode                    = "DYNAMIC"
   label                          = "Terraform lab"
  login_mode                     = "DISABLED"
   pkce_required                  = false
  policy_uri                     = null
    response_types                 = ["token"]
  token_endpoint_auth_method     = "private_key_jwt"
  type                           = "service"
  user_name_template             = "$${source.login}"
    user_name_template_type        = "BUILT_IN"
  wildcard_redirect              = "DISABLED"
  jwks {
   ...
  }
}
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: Continue learning more about PowerShell and Terraform -- suggestion for SEO
